Initial version of project description for TAD Project (#111)
MinBZK/ai-validation: docs/Projects/TAD/index.md

# TAD

TAD is the acronym for **T**ransparency of **A**lgorithmic **D**ecision making. TAD has the goal to make algorithmic
systems more transparent; it achieves this by generating standardized reports on the algorithmic system which
encompasses both technical aspects in addition to descriptive information about the system and regulatory assessments.
For both the system and the model the lifecycle is important and this needs to be taken into account. The definition
for an algorithm is derived from the [Algoritmeregister](https://algoritmes.overheid.nl/nl/footer/over-algoritmes).

On the one hand the TAD project is focused on building a standardized format of reporting on a algorithmic system by
developing a [Reporting Standard](Reporting-Standard). This Reporting Standard consists out of a System Card which

> contains Model Cards and Assessment Cards. On the other hand the project is focused on filling in the System, Model and

Author: ah thank you, yeah I thought I knew this though. As this is also a standard markdown feature. But extra thanks for your review!

# TAD

> TAD is the abbreviation of Transparency of Algorithmic Decision Making, the goal is to make algorithmic systems more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TAD is the acronym for **T**ransparency of **A**lgorithmic **D**ecision making, the goal is to make algorithmic systems more
```

> transparent by generating standardized reports on the algorithmic system for both it's technical element as well as the

Reviewer 2: Also we should maybe add some explenations about the used terminology. For example: "An algorithmic system is a system consisting out of one or more ML models".

Author: I just added a reference to the definition of an algorithm of the algoritme register, would this suffice or would you like to descripe also the algorithm system better?

> TAD is the acronym for **T**ransparency of **A**lgorithmic **D**ecision making, the goal is to make algorithmic systems more
> transparent by generating standardized reports on the algorithmic system for both it's technical element as well as the
> surrounding system. For both the model and the system the lifecycle is important and this needs to be taken into
> account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TAD is the acronym for **T**ransparency of **A**lgorithmic **D**ecision making. TAD has the goal to make algorithmic systems more transparent; it achieves this by generating standardized reports on the algorithmic system which encompasses both technical aspects as well as descriptive information about the system and regulatory assessments. For both the system and the model the lifecycle is important and this needs to be taken into
account.
```

> account.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence of this paragraph does not really naturally follow from the previous sentences. Also it feels unfinished.

The TAD project is focused on one hand building the standardized format of reporting on an algorithmic system by

> extending on the format of [Industry Standard](Reporting-Standard%2Findex.md). On the other hand the project is focused

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extending on the format of [Industry Standard](Reporting-Standard). On the other hand the project is focused
```

> The TAD project is focused on one hand building the standardized format of reporting on an algorithmic system by
> extending on the format of [Industry Standard](Reporting-Standard). On the other hand the project is focused
> on filling in the system- and model cards with both technical metrics & measurements of the exact model as theoretical
> assessments on the system where the specific algorithm resides. The requirements and instruments are dictated by the
> [Algoritmekader](https://minbzk.github.io/Algoritmekader/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the one hand the TAD project is focused on building a standardized format of reporting on a algorithmic system by developing a [Reporting Standard](Reporting-Standard). This Reporting Standard consists out of a System Card which contains Model Cards and Assessment Cards. On the other hand the project is focused
on filling in the System, Model and Assessment Cards with both performance metrics and technical measurements on fairness and bias of the model and 
assessments on the system where the specific algorithm resides. The requirements and instruments are dictated by the
[Algoritmekader](https://minbzk.github.io/Algoritmekader/).
```

## FAQ

Is TAD an AI Governance Platform?

> While TAD will generate standardized reporting, and you are able to edit reporting of algorithmic systems the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While TAD will generate a standardized report and you are able to edit report of algorithmic systems, the
```

governance/management aspect of different models is currently out of scope for this project. To keep track, compare,
and alert on models a different approach should be taken but could very much be the follow-up from this project.

Is TAD a tool?

> While the project does not aim to be just another tool, the current tools we have compared in the market are
> shortcoming therefore with ADR (XXX) we are proposing to make a set of tools which will help us realize the goal
> of filling in the standardized reporting format for algorithmic systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the project does not aim to be just another tool, the existing tools we have compared in the market are
not sufficient to our needs. Therefore, with ADR (XXX) we are proposing to make a set of tools which will help us realize the goal
of filling in the standardized reporting format for algorithmic systems.
```
